---
title: Day2
date: 2026-06-20 00:00:00 +0800
categories: [Red Team]
tags: [redteam, notes]
permalink: /redteam/dayone/
---

# Day2

## API Hooking (continuation)

### Manual syscalls

#### Indirect Syscalls

Previously, we can see something different in the callstack. Also security vendors might hook something in the first few instructions. 

Original
```
0:000> uf ntdll!NtOpenProcess
00007ffd`2a6e1fb0 4c8bd1           mov     r10,rcx
00007ffd`2a6e1fb3 b826000000       mov     eax,26h
00007ffd`2a6e1fb8 f604250803fe7f01 test    byte ptr [SharedUserData+0x308 (00000000`7ffe0308)],1
00007ffd`2a6e1fc0 7503             jne     ntdll!NtOpenProcess+0x15 (00007ffd`2a6e1fc5)  Branch
00007ffd`2a6e1fc2 0f05             syscall
00007ffd`2a6e1fc4 c3               ret
```

Your own code (direct syscall)
```
mov r10, rcx
mov eax, SSN
syscall
ret
```

Your own code (indirect syscall)
```
mov r10, rcx
mov eax, 26h
jmp ntdll!NtOpenProcess+0x12 (address of syscall inside ntdll)
```

The difference is that one is executing from your own module, and the other is calling the actual syscall address inside NtOpenProcess. Both avoid the hooks though. However, the first one is weird because there is a call to NtOpenProcess outside ntdll.dll. 


The resulting Call stack
```
ntdll!NtOpenProcess+0x12
SyscallDemo!main+0x134
```

You can fool some products by jumping into a different Nt* function. Basically, you are saying that you are setting the SSN to NtOpenProcess. Jump to NtClose where it will do 'syscall' instruction. Then it calls NtOpenProcess kernel function, however, it looks like it is from NtClose syscall. 

```
EXTERN ntCloseSyscall:QWORD

.code

	NtOpenProcess proc
		mov r10, rcx                    ; 
		mov eax, 26h					; <- ssn of NtOpenProcess
		jmp QWORD PTR [ntCloseSyscall]  ; <- jmp to syscall in NtClose
	NtOpenProcess endp

end
```

Resulting call stack
```
ntdll!NtClose+0x12
SyscallDemo!main+0xb7
```

## Syscall Libraries

The examples we have been using are hardcoded. This is not reliable in the real world. 

1. SSNs may vary between different version of Windows
2. ASLR makes sure that DLLs are not loaded into the same memory addresses between reboots. 

This is how a normal ntdll!NtOpenProcess looks like
```
0:000> uf ntdll!NtOpenProcess
00007ffd`2a6e1fb0 4c8bd1           mov     r10,rcx
00007ffd`2a6e1fb3 b826000000       mov     eax,26h
00007ffd`2a6e1fb8 f604250803fe7f01 test    byte ptr [SharedUserData+0x308 (00000000`7ffe0308)],1
00007ffd`2a6e1fc0 7503             jne     ntdll!NtOpenProcess+0x15 (00007ffd`2a6e1fc5)  Branch
00007ffd`2a6e1fc2 0f05             syscall
00007ffd`2a6e1fc4 c3               ret
```

You might think that u can get the function pointer, add +4 to get the SSN, add +18 to get the syscall location. 

However, if the product is hooked, inline hooks will replace the first few lines of the instructions. 

Solution 1 in history: Hell's gate

Resolve the target function. Then walks the function instruction and look for the b8 (mov) opcode. The next WORD (2 bytes) are assumed to be the SSN. 

`mov eax, 26h`

Solution 2: Halo's gate

If it cannot find a suitable `mov` instruction in a hooked function, then it cannot provide a SSN. 
Search for neighbouring functions that aren't hooked. 

```
NtQueryInformationThread    0x25
NtOpenProcess               0x26
NtSetInformationFile        0x27
```

Solution 3: Tartarus's gate 

Check if the first 3 bytes are `4c 8b d1`

`mov r10, rcx`

Of course, some security vendors don't hook the first line. 

Check if the 4th byte is an `e9` (jmp) opcode.

```
4c 8b d1          mov r10, rcx
e9 xx xx xx xx    jmp vendor_hook
```

## API unhooking

As multiple functions in ntdll could be hooked, if you were to unhookk, just replace the entire code in memory. 

1. Read a clean version of ntdll.dll from disk.
2. Get the base address of the hooked ntdll.dll in memory.
3. Locate its .text section.
4. Make the .text region writable.
5. Copy the .text section from the clean version over the hooked version.
6. Restore the .text section's memory permissions.
7. Flush the instruction cache.
8. Close handles.

This is because the .text section usually contains the DLL's executable code. 