---
title: Day1
date: 2026-06-19 00:00:00 +0800
categories: [Red Team]
tags: [redteam, notes]
permalink: /redteam/dayone/
---

# Day1

## C2 Infrastructure

Redirectors -> so that our team server cannot be targeted directly with port scanners. 

After you get initial access, try to set up long-term persistence to another server. 

#### Apache

For Apache, we can make use of two files
1. /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf
2. .htaccess

We can put all the rewrite rules on .htaccess, and this file changes on the fly. We do not need to restart the server everytime we edit this file. 


Learnt X-Forwarded-For in Web but never thought to use it here. 
Victim -> Redirector -> Team Server. 
If you want the Team Server to know what the victim IP is, you have to turn on the `X-Forwarded-For` setting.

#### Nginx

Unlike Apache, it only has 
1. /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default

This means that the redirection rules have to be inside this same file. 

## EDR Telemetry 

There is user mode and kernel mode. 

User mode -> code has their own region of private virtual memory. 

Kernel mode -> code shares the same virtual address space. Only code running here can interact with a physical computer's hardware. 

KernelBase.dll and ntdll.dll exist in user mode. A lot of the rather famous Win32 functions are exported from these DLLs. 

Win32 API OpenProcess(KernelBase.dll) -> NtOpenProcess(ntdll.dll) -> Syscall ->  NtOpenProcess(ntoskrnl.exe) -> PsOpenProcess (ntoskrnl.exe)

Each kernel service has their own SSN(System Service Number).

There is a SSDT (System Service Descriptor Table), which maps SSN to function pointers in the kernel. 
E.g. NtOpenProcess 0x26

## API Hooking

#### IAT hooking

If you have a program and you import a function through a DLL, when the program is compiled into a PE, there is an "Import Directory" directory. 

The Import Directory tells the Windows loader:

  1. Need KERNEL32.dll. Need OpenProcess. Need USER32.dll. Need MessageBoxW

  2. Here are the tables to fill

The Windows loader reads that metadata.

  4. The loader loads or finds USER32.dll.

  5. The loader finds MessageBoxW inside USER32.dll.
  
  6. The loader writes the real address into the IAT.

--- 
GetModuleHandle or LoadLibrary → get base address of DLL

GetProcAddress → each function

Result is patched into Import Address Table (IAT).
---

To check IAT table
```
0:000> !dh ExampleApp

[...snip...]

00007ff6f3da0000 image base

[...snip...]

F000 [     270] address [size] of Import Address Table Directory
```

```
0:000> dps 00007ff6`f3daf000 00007ff6`f3daf270

[...snip...]

00007ff6`f3daf260  00007ffd`c3532e70 USER32!MessageBoxW
```

00007ff6`f3daf260 -> 00007ffd`c3532e70



Check memory address of MessageBoxW
```
0:000> lm
00007ffd`c3510000 00007ffd`c36da000 USER32

0:000> x User32!MessageBoxW
00007ffd`c3532e70 USER32!MessageBoxW (MessageBoxW)
```

**So what is IAT hooking?**

After the program runs, the IAT table has been populated right? 

IAT hooking is to overwrite these functions. These addresses will point to the security product’s functions instead. From there, their DLL can do whatever it takes. 

In this case, it overwrites the  00007ffd`c3532e70 value in the IAT slot 00007ff6`f3daf260, with the value of the security function’s DLL memory address.

#### Inline Hooking
-> Replace the first few instructions of a function, with a jmp to a detour function. There will be a trampoline function that contains the replaced instruction, and another jmp to the original code. 


### Manual Syscalls
-> this works because you can execute system calls directly without going through user mode API. You can bypass user mode hooks.

1. Direct Syscalls
2. Indirect Syscalls

#### Direct syscalls
-> write an assembly stub that executes a syscall instruction in a similar way that genuine stubs do. Move a SSN that you want into the EAX register and execute a syscall instruction. 

How a callstack should look like
```
ntdll!NtOpenProcess
KERNELBASE!OpenProcess+0x56
Demo!main+0xa0
```

If you call it directly
```
SyscallDemo!NtOpenProcess
SyscallDemo!main+0xb7
```

AV products will flag that you are moving the SSN into the EAX and syscall directly with the byte pattern `0xB8, 0x??, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x0F, 0x05`
```
b8 ?? 00 00 00    mov    eax,0x??
0f 05             syscall
```

